# I. Django's Core Features

- A website is a resource stored on a server. User send HTTP Request and the website sends back a HTTP Response.

- A webpage is a discrete entity that contains data. Each webpage is identified by URL.

- *Dynamic webpage* typically refer to a webpage that is computed on the backend.

- Frameworks are different from other external codebases, such as libraries, because they feature **inversion of control**. In this way, the framework, not the developer, dictates control flow.

```python
# Using a library
def my_func(*args):
    ...
    library.lib_func(*args)
    ...

# Using a framework
def my_func():
    ...
framework.run(my_func)
```

### Django Framework
**Django**:
- free and open-source
- MVC architecture

In Django, a view refers to something that builds a webpage and is part of the implementation of MVC controllers. The Model itself does not store data but provide tools to communicate with databases.



## Create a new Project
```
django-admin startproject projectname
```

Django Project structure:
- manage.py: provide util functions.
- projectname/: contains porject-wide settings.


Django requires a database before it can run.
```
./manage.py migrate
```

```
./manage.py runserver [optional port]

# to make it publicly available
./manage.py runserver 0.0.0.0:80
```



### Create a new app
```
./manage.py startapp appname
```

A project is made of any number of apps.
Django encapsulates data and behavior by app.



Django's app file structure:
- appname/migrations/: contains data pertaining to the database tables.

Connect our new apps to our project by editting `settings.py`. add app's name to `INSTALLED_APPS`.

Webpage data are typically stored in the `views.py` file of any app.

To delete the app we need to remove it from `settings.py` and `urls.py`. Then remove the directory of the app. `rm -r app/`. Every thing is easy thank to clean app encapsulation.

## Programming Django Models and Creating a SQLite Database.
Database is a undeniable part of modern websites.
Advantages:
- Rapid access to consistent, persistent, normalized data

Using slug allows for the customizable creation of clean and human-friendly URLs.


one-to-many relation
many-to-many relation

You should always use Django to build your database. YOu will always want to define models in Django and then make Django generate the database for you.

In Django, models and the database schema are reflections of one other. Any modification of one must result in the modification of the other.

Migrations solve the conflict problems by providing a controlled, predictable system for altering a database. The typical workflow with Django is to:
1. Create or change a model in Django
2. Generate a migration file
3. Use the migration file to create/alter the database.


Migration files may be considerd version control for the database.

```
./manage.py check
```